src/pages/docs/patterns/panel.md, before:

---
title: "Panel"
description: "Panel pattern description"
layout: "guide"
weight: 1
---

Panels help to separate your content.

## Usage

Panel are use to help separating content a making processes as reading or filling a form easier to the user. Panels are a way of chunking into smaller pieces.

## Configuration

Panels can be configured in different ways:

### Body

![panel only body most simple version](../../../images/panelNaked.png)

### Header + body

TODO description

![panel with header](../../../images/panelHeaderBody.png)

### Header + body + footer

TODO NOTE: Are we using panel states somewhere?

## Variations

### Accordion

Panels can be collapsible. Whenever there is a collapsible panel the header must include a disclosure icon as an affordance to let the user understand that open and close actions can be performed. Please, see that when a panel is open the header is highlighted with a blue line below it marking the active state.

![collapsable panels](../../../images/panelCollasable.png)

In the following example you can see the accordion working. It is also optional to close all entries when a diferent entry opens.

![collapsable panels](../../../images/panelCollapsibleExample.gif)

Commit message:

Changes in color, tweaks on images for several areas, header toolbar gif redone, navtabs finished, accordion gif redone, sidenav ready, typograghy done, and other small changes

src/pages/docs/patterns/panel.md, after:

---
title: "Panel"
description: "Panel pattern description"
layout: "guide"
weight: 1
---

Panels help to separate your content.

## Usage

Panel are use to help separating content a making processes as reading or filling a form easier to the user. Panels are a way of chunking into smaller pieces.

## Configuration

Panels can be configured in different ways:

### Body

Use this configuration to separate content inside a form.

![panel only body most simple version](../../../images/panelNaked.png)

### Header + body

Use this configuration when you need to se parate a content that needs a title and the title needs to capture the attention of your user.

Do never use it to collapse content without a disclosure arrow. Use an accordion in that case.

![panel with header](../../../images/panelHeaderBody.png)

## Variations

### Accordion

Panels can be collapsible. Whenever there is a collapsible panel the header must include a disclosure icon as an affordance to let the user understand that open and close actions can be performed. Please, see that when a panel is open the header is highlighted with a blue line below it marking the active state.

It is not a good practice to anidate accordions. Please try to avoid it.

![collapsable panels](../../../images/panelCollasable.png)

In the following example you can see the accordion working. It is also optional to close all entries when a diferent entry opens.

![collapsable panels](../../../images/panelCollapsibleExample.gif)
